In the last video, we had a look at how to check if a user is allowed to enter somewhere,
now we want to check if the user is allowed to leave a route. I alreaady set up the user edit route to have this
confirm button,
so I'll now quickly add a script here to export my default object belonging to this vue component and there,
I want to have some methods
and I also want to have some, some data, my data object. And in there, I will simply return an object
where I set edited to false or not edited,
let's name it
confirmed,
confirmed to false,
don't need the method to be honest, I can simply click listener here and set confirmed equal to true inside
there.
So this now controls whether
I did click this button or not
and now on this component and this is now the only place where I can specify this, as before in user
detail with beforeRouteEnter,
I can now set up beforeRouteLeave, again this is the only place where I can do this because while it is in
the component where I want to check this right, this is right before I actually do navigate away
so checking this on a global level would be too late,
the navigation would already be on its way.
So instead it's here in the component which decides
are you even allowed to go somewhere else
and here I checked to, from and then also next
and I have to call next to let the request continue,
I can also abort and redirect here just like with beforeRouteEnter.
And here I could check if this.confirmed is true,
here of course I do have access to this.confirmed because I am in the component and I'm talking about
are you allowed to leave,
of course the component has been created at this point of time, we were using it all the time.
So here I may access it with this and I can check if this is confirmed in which case
I want to navigate,
if it is not confirmed,
well then I want to throw or show the confirm dialog,
are you sure to let the user decide if he wants to continue,
confirm this dialog will return true or false depending on whether the user clicked yes or no.
And if this was yes, then I also want to navigate away otherwise
I want to abort the navigation. So we have this double check, if the button was clicked,
you're always free to leave, if the button was not clicked, well then I'm asking you with the confirm dialog,
if you say yes there, okay, you're allowed to leave, if you say no, you'll stay on this page.
This would be a typical set up where you want to ensure that a user doesn't navigate away by accidentally
hitting the back button or something like this.
So with this, let's load this again, go to edit user there, we are there
and now let's try to go to home.
I didn't click the confirm button so now I'm asked if I want to leave and if I click on cancel, I'm staying
on this page,
if I click on ok, well then I'm allowed to leave. And therefore if I now go there again
and now I click confirm first and click now on go to home,
I'm instantly allowed to leave because confirmed was set to true and this is the first check
I do have here. And these are the two navigation guards you have, before entering and before leaving so
that you can really control when the user is allowed to beware in your application.